     The Roman Empire had a huge task in front of them while it was first starting out and while it was becoming a dominant dynasty in the early civilizations. The main problem that the book «Discovering the Global Past» points out is how the Roman Empire found itself growing a little too quickly. The Roman Empire started out very small on the Tiber River and grew abruptly without warning. Before they knew it, they were not a small power but now one with a great number of people with a great number of cultures intertwined within the Roman Empire. They were now spread over an immense portion of land with much power coming with it. The question now is how they are going to be able to handle all of this power and continue to dominate the world without any blueprints to help them out from previous dynasties because it had never been done before. We now have some evidence to help understand this and to show how it did happen. So courtesy of the «Discovering the Global Past» they have seven pieces of evidence that will help prove that the Roman Empire could handle the challenge of taking on the mastery of world power.

The first piece of evidence that I have is The Achievements of the Divine Augustus, which states all of the achievements and accomplishments that helped him conquer the world under the Roman Empire. In this piece of evidence it shows all of Caesar Augustus’ tactics he used to help him conquer the world. Many of which were war related. He gained most of his power by going to war and overthrowing that particular ruler. Thus this helped him gain respect which was also a key factor in his dominance. Once gaining the respect of the Roman Senate and also the republic he became the top runner to be «elected sole guardian of the laws and moral with supreme authority». But Augustus refused to take that role of leadership in the Empire. He did many things in which the people love such as repairing the capitol and the theater of Pompey which cost a great amount and he did it without any public recognition. He did a number of things to help out the ruins and made the cities better by rebuilding them and making them nice again. Also what he wasn’t going to finish by his death he would make sure his heirs would complete it. This list goes on and on of things that Augustus had done to help out the lives of people under the Roman Empire. This piece of evidence showed the strength that Roman Empire would soon have because they were still on the rise. The second piece of evidence that I have is Powers and Titles of the Emperor. This was a key part of having a successful empire. Once the Roman Empire was established they thought up a hierarchy to help control the empire. The good thing that came out of this was that the senate and the republic agreed to pass all the power entirely to Augustus. Now that they had a good ruler, it showed that their empire was growing and was a very strong for to be reckoned with. With such a high status Augustus and his successors expected a lot of support from the people and from the Roman senate.

The third piece of evidence that was available was the Roman Coin of the Reign of Emperor Nero. This was a coin that was minted during the Emperor Nero which had his portrait on it along with his name, his relationship to Caesar Augustus, and the four most prized titles that he had been awarded. They do this to help show and advertise their public image. But this wasn’t the only way that Emperor’s helped their public image and helps make them well known. They would make statues of themselves like the one the Emperor Trajan had made which is our fourth piece of evidence called Trajan’s Column, which was located in Rome. This was made with him in a military outfit to show that he was a military commander. According to Discovering The Global Past, it had to say this about Trajan’s Column: «Although built primarily to hold aloft a huge statue of Trajan in military dress, the column also publicizes his most famous campaign, a war fought against the Dacians on the Balkan peninsula». So this went to show that they would build statues and make coins to make themselves they would also use them as campaigns to help recruit and make wars successful which is key to build up an empire.

Now leading us to our sixth piece of evidence the Roman Temple Inscription in Myra, Lycia, which was the inscription that Caesar Augustus had written on the wall. They do this to show the emperor’s divine status while in rule. This was a trend that was just beginning which helped sort out whom they were and whom they wanted to be remembered as by letting them write this in their own words for all the people to see. The last piece of evidence is the Edict and Speech of Nero to the Greeks, which is the speech where the Emperor Nero gives the Greek people a reward for good will and not out of pity on the people. This is exactly how an emperor can make the people happy by giving them rewards. When trying to control a whole nation one must try to make the people happy and this was a key thing to do to help the reign of the Roman Empire continue.

In conclusion I found it quite remarkable how the Roman Empire had redefined political authority to suit a new level of world mastery. The main question that we had was how was the Roman Empire going to continue to be successful while it was on the rise so fast? Well the answer is quite easy and that is by using tactics that had never been used before which we found out were very successful. The Roman Empire was good to its people which made it possible for them to stay under control of the current emperor. For an emperor to go out rebuild cities and start new cities for people to live in was amazing, and that is how these great officials were elected by both the senate and the republic which was the backbone of the Roman Empire. Now it is considered one of the greatest empires ever.

Corporations have the need to raise capital for a number of reasons. Smaller firms need capital to start up operations. Larger firms need capital to expand operations and to finance inventory. There are various ways in which a firm can raise capital through the financial system and numerous individuals and entities that can assist a corporation in this crucial venture.

Start-up firms and small businesses petition investors for what is known as venture capital. Venture capital comes from wealthy investors, usually a group, who see the potential for growth in smaller businesses. In the early 1990’s the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) expanded its role to assist small businesses. The SEC made it easier for small businesses to raise capital through public stock offerings.

Corporations also raise money to finance debt. Businesses sell bonds to investors in order to raise money for working capital and capital expenditures. The corporation agrees to pay back the principal plus interest, therefore making the investors creditors. Bond holders are able to sell bonds to others before they are due. Selling bonds are beneficial to corporations because, in addition to raising capital, bonds also have much lower interest rates that are tax deductible. The down side is that corporations must make interest payments regardless of whether they turn a profit. This often is not an option for smaller businesses.

Larger corporations that exist as public companies can also sell bonds in order to raise capital. Public companies can issue preferred stock along with common stock. Preferred stock is a higher-ranking stock than common stock and preferred stock holders have a greater claim to a company’s assets and earnings. Holders of preferred stock may also have dividends paid before holders of common stock and these dividends are paid at regular intervals, whereas common stock dividends are only paid out when a board of director’s decides to make a payout. Preferred stock often has no voting rights, however, as opposed to common stock. Preferred stock is usually offered to investors, where as common stock is usually offered to employees.

Another means of raising both short and long-term capital is through international markets. According to authors Stanley Block and Geoffrey Hirt (2005), “When the markets are good, money is cheap and easy to find, and when the markets are bad, money is hard to find and relatively expensive. The world economic markets often move back and forth between the two extremes”.

Short-term markets, or money markets, consist of securities that will mature in a year or less. Money markets provide short-term funding for the global financing system. Treasury bills and commercial paper are bought and sold in money markets.

Corporations may also use more traditional methods for raising capital by borrowing from banks and other established lenders. Businesses that require financing for inventory often borrow from banks. Firms can use retained earning, or profits, to raise capital. Depending on the size of the corporation some or all of a company’s profits may be held back for further investment before issuing dividends.

Corporations often look to investment bankers to handle many of these functions. Investment bankers typically have a solid background in finance and economics and are specialists in financial analysis. These bankers act as intermediaries, or middle men, between corporations looking to raise capital and investors. Investment bankers oversee the issuing of bonds, manage selling a company’s stock and advise corporations on acquiring and merging with other companies.

There are many safety factors that pilots have to take into consideration while completing a safe flight. Everything has to be taken into mind when planning a flight. From weight and balance to preflight inspections. One safety factor that is impossible to have control over is weather. There are many aspects of weather that can affect an aircraft, in this report I will specifically talk about the microburst.

Microbursts are powerful downdrafts associated with thunderstorms. We have been able to identify microbursts through many studies regarding wind shear and meteorology research. Wind shear is basically a rapid change in wind velocity and direction that happen because of many factors in weather conditions. Such conditions include frontal activity, temperature inversions, and thunderstorms amongst other factors.

Wherever there is convective activity such as thunderstorms there is the possibility of a microburst. Microbursts are associated with downdrafts. These are typically only a few hundred to a few thousand feet across. When the downdraft reaches the ground, it spreads out horizontally and may form a vortex around the downdraft.

Unfortunately microbursts can occur without the presence of precipitation being present making the detection of this almost impossible. This is one of the major reasons why there have been so many incidents involving aircrafts and microbursts. There are now many different kinds of service stations that help identify microbursts though. The aircraft accident rate due to microbursts in association with classic severe local storms is practically nonexistent for commercial aviation, since the system is apparently well designed to protect passenger jets against these.
Although most accidents are found to be pilot error due to hazardous attitudes such as ‘macho’ there aren’t many training emphasis on fighting a microburst because most of the time the microburst wins.

From the most famous cases of aircraft accidents associated with microbursts is Delta 191. This flight left from Fort Lauderdale Hollywood International to Los Angeles International Airport in California through Dallas International Airport. The crash happened while the plane was on approach into Dallas. At 1500 the first officer reported seeing lightning ahead yet they continued with the approach. At 800 feet the aircraft accelerated so the crew member reduced power to compensate, then came the adverse effect of the microburst slowing the aircraft down. To compensate for this they added power but the downbursts were to strong and Delta 191 ended up crashing on the ground.

In conclusion the one factor pilots must always take into consideration and fear is weather. This phenomenon is still something that humans haven’t been able to completely understand and predict.

Imagine a hospital that, at one time ran smoothly helping the public, now with the primary objection of taking care of the thousands of abandoned infants and children. This is the reality in Romania when Nicolae Ceausescu was in power. In 1966 he created an Anti-Abortion/Contraception law in order to raise the population and achieve his ultimate goal to slowly take over surrounding areas and increase Romania’s power. The next plan of action was to open orphanages, which caused an entire generation of mentally and physically handicapped children. Now after more than four decades, the question is if they have made enough progression on this horrific issue.

Ceausescu’s law included that each family that doesn’t have at least five children can not use birth control or contraception, but most families couldn’t afford to take care of them so they had to turn them over to the government. The combination of being under funded and understaffed caused the children to be neglected and even worse abused. In Romania’s many institutions, the ratio of child to caretaker was 1 to 65 until as late as 1990. In any Daycare in the united states the ratio for infants is one to four, this is for the safety and constant development of the babies. The effect the small number of staff had on the children is the lack of stimulation. Baby’s brains are continuously hungry for stimulation and if there is none then the development is delayed. Professor Michael Rutter did a study on children adopted into England. The first of the three groups was adopted from within the country, the second was adopted from Romania before the age of 6 months, the last was adopted from Romania after the age of 6 months. He studied the effects on brain progression as a result of institutionalization and the results were shocking.

“When they first arrived in the country as babies, more than half the 165 children he studied showed severe delays in development compared with their British counterparts. But he found that, even at the age of 11, many of these children have not caught up.”

Some of the children were physically handicapped as a result of the institution. They would be tied to their cribs, beds or just tied up like an animal. The inability to move made them very weak and eventually was the cause of their disability. In an article in the New York Times on the subject they described one scene, “In an adult psychiatric hospital, investigators found some children wrapped head to toe in sheets used as full-body restraints. When the staff agreed to remove the sheet on a 17-year-old girl, the report states, “her skin came off with the sheet, leaving a raw open wound beneath it.”

Not only is that illegal but it is also nauseating that people do not feel bad treating another in that manner.

The treatment in the institutions also spread many diseases without the proper medications to treat them. As a result of the malnutrition, some caretakers would inject them with a micro infusion of whole blood everyday to boost immunity. The blood was not screened and there was not enough needles so ironically, the injection to boost immunity is the very cause of many children getting the ultimate immunodeficiency, HIV. 93% of the initial cases were under the age of 13 and by 2000, 60% of Europe’s pediatric HIV/AIDS was registered in Romania. The disease spread quickly because of the conditions and became a large problem for the Romanian government because of the lack of funds to get the proper medication for them.

There has been some improvements such as new centers opening up and humanizing some of the existing ones. Since Ceausescu assassination on December 25, 1989, while trying to flee the country, Romania has used the money in their budget as well as the money donated to help address the issue. The tragic part is that they do not have enough to dig them out of the deep hole that Ceausescu dug for them.

The problem that arose later was the street children of Romania. They were either abandoned and learned to live independently on the streets or more commonly they were young adults thrown from the orphanages. The institutions only took kids up to 18 and after that they were told to leave, with no families or anyone to look to for help, they just ended up on the streets. Many of them have drug problems such as sniffing glue and metallic paint. The sniffing sooths the hunger pains and makes them happy for the time they are high. This is no such life for them considering they are just entering the adult world.

There are many organizations out to help the orphanages as well as the families and children of post-institutionalized children. One if them is Families of Russian and Ukrainian Adoption (“who we are and what we do“). Their main focus is providing tools to adopted children and their families in order to make the adjustment smoother. The connect orphans with each other and helps teach them about their culture and keep a close bond with their homeland. They also help orphans in Romania as well by building playgrounds and donating books. Dr. Steve Curran takes mission trips to Romania in order to give free dental care to the orphans who otherwise wouldn’t see one. For the street children, there is help too. Such as Concordia which is an organization that has built many homes for them as well as drop-in centers to distribute food, water, medical care and therapy. The homes find the orphans jobs and give them a place to live so they can learn to care for themselves.

On June 21, 2004 there was a law passed in Romania against International adoption except to grandparents. Ion Iliescu, former president of Romania created this law thinking that it is better for the children to be in state run orphanages, foster homes or to be adopted domestically. One thing I’m sure he didn’t take into consideration is the fact that most abandoned children are gypsies, most Romanian’s will not adopt a gypsy child. This means that until they open adoption internationally again, many children will not be getting the loving homes they deserve. It’s a shame because there are so many people who want to adopt from there and can give those children a better home than they could ever imagine in Romania.

When I started writing this research paper, it was just another assignment to get done but I learned so much and became passionate about the cause. I have researched different groups and have decided to volunteer abroad in an orphanage. These kids ask for nothing more than to feel secure and loved, something that most children take for granted here in the U.S. everyday. I am leaning toward Projects Abroad to do my volunteer work because they are a non-religious group(«Do International Volunteer Work with Children in Romania with Projects Abroad.»). Most of the groups are Christian and I am not very religious so I chose not to join those. Hopefully I will be going in the summer of 2010, I have to wait because the price to go is around $3,000.
The tragedy that had befallen Romania is not good but they have tried to improve the conditions with the help of other organizations. Considering this, they still have a lot of work to do and they could have done a lot more. It is up to organizations and the European Union to help and motivate the present president, Traian Basescu, to get rid of this issue that has plagued Romania for almost 43 years.